.. _sphinx_tutorial:

######################
Sphinx_ quick overview
######################

`Sphinx`_ uses reStructuredText  as its markup language, and many of its strengths
come from the power and straightforwardness of reStructuredText and its parsing
and translating suite, the Docutils. 

Here is a quick reStructuredText tutorial :ref:`rst_tutorial`.

Configuration and compilation
=============================

In order to manage a documentation with `Sphinx`_, you need a configuration file.

To generate a template of configuration file, type **sphinx-quickstart** that 
will create a file called **conf.py** as well as a **Makefile**

Edit this file to your need. 

Then, create some reST files and type **make**

Here below are a few markups and directives specific to Sphinx (not part of reST).

Sphinx markup
=============

How to include source file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use the *literalinclude* directive:

.. code-block:: rest

    .. literalinclude:: filename
        :linenos:
        :language: python
        :lines: 1, 3-5
        :start-after: 3
        :end-before: 5

How to include reST file using a TOC tree
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since reST does not have facilities to interconnect several documents, or split
documents into multiple output files, Sphinx uses a custom directive to add 
relations between the single files the documentation is made of, as well as 
tables of contents. The toctree directive is the central element. 

.. code-block:: rest

    .. toctree::
        :maxdepth: 2
        
        intro
        chapter1
        chapter2
    
Globbing can be used by adding the *glob* option:
    
.. code-block:: rest
    
    .. toctree::
       :glob:
       
        intro*
        recipe/*
        *
   
    
How to include Latex formulas
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Sphinx adds several extension to restructuredText among which the math 
extension, which allows to add Latex expressions in the text.

This example, put in the text::

     :math:`\alpha > \beta`  

produces ":math:`\alpha > \beta`".


.. warning:: 
    The *math* markup can be used within reST files (to be parsed by Sphinx)
    but within your python's docstring, the slashes need to be escaped !
    ``:math:`\alpha``` should therefore be written ``:math:`\\alpha```       

How to auto-document your python code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let us suppose you have 

.. code-block:: rest

    .. module:: actor

    .. autoclass:: IActor
        :members:
        :undoc-members:

Cross-referencing syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Cross-references are generated by many semantic interpreted text roles. 
Basically, you only need to write ``:role:`target```, and a link will be
created to the item named target of the type indicated by role. The 
links’s text will be the same as target.

You may supply an explicit title and reference target, like in reST direct
hyperlinks: ``:role:`title <target>``` will refer to target, but the link text
will be title.

How to add raw html
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. raw:: html

    <html style="border:2px color:red">
    <tr>
    <td>column 1</td>
    <td>column 1</td>
    </tr>
    </html>







.. ---------------------------------------------------

.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/index.html
